In this exercise, we are going to check whether given IP address is valid or not.
Every developer knows what an IP address is.
It is a unique computer ID on the internet.
The IP address is divided into four parts separated by a dot.
Not only that, but each part can have value between zero 2 to 55.
If we look at a few valid IP addresses, then they will look like this.
The last one is actually the local host.
That is.
127.0.0.1.
As you can see, each part has value between zero and 255.
You cannot have an IP address which has any part beyond that range.
For example.
59.0.0.1.
Here 590 is invalid value because it is beyond 255.
Similarly, any part out of these four parts must have a value between 0 to 255.
So to validate an IP address, we check that it has four parts each separated by a dot and value between
zero 2 to 55.
These three conditions will validate an IP address.
So let's discuss the pattern for any numeric value separated in four parts by a dot.
We can think of slash D along with the qualifiers where we use curly brackets and just say one comma
three that is one, two or three digits and the same for three more times.
But in that case it will not check the value, which should be between zero and 255.
In this case, we will use the range that is the square brackets and pipe sign for the alterations.
Let's understand only one part in detail.
As for the rest of the three parts, the validation will be the same.
We will start the pattern by giving boundaries, using anchors, a carat and a dollar.
Now we may have value beginning with 25, and the next digit can be 0 to 5.
Or it may begin with two.
Next digit can be between 0 to 4 and last digit between 0 to 9, or there might be zero or one occurring
zero times, or at least one time.
Or there may be zero or one time two digits ranging between 0 to 9.
And at the end there will be a dot.
So I will use slash dot and this pattern is for one section, but we need to put it three more times
to execute the same validation.
So the entire pattern will be like this.
Easy, isn't it?
So let's try it practically.
We will begin with local host IP that is 127.0.0.1.
Let's declare a variable.
And the pattern.
And we use the test method.
So it is true.
So the output says it is a valid IP.
Let's change to another valid IP.
254.176.3.102.
And run the code.
This also returns true as it is a valid IP.
Now let's change it to some invalid IP like 450 6.9.8.0 where 456 is beyond the value.
255 So the first section is invalid.
Let's run the code.
It says false.
Now instead of first section, let's make the third section invalid and try the same again.
So now we see false.
This means if any section of IP address is invalid, then it will be checked.
Even if you have more or less than four sections, let's say you have five sections or maybe three sections,
it will be an invalid IP.
So let's keep three sections here with valid value and see what is the output.
I'll say 45.90 point 255 where each section is a valid section, let's run the code.
So here the rejects pattern did not find four parts so it gave it false.
You can try various other combinations if you have any in your mind on the same pattern.